# Abstract of the Style Based Drawn Artwork Image Classification work

TODO, below are only relevant fragments from the proposal

This work will evaluate features for CBIR in the retrieval of art images in the
contexts of similar style of illustrations, drawings and paintings.  Aesthetics
are deeply related to the concept of art therefore similar style will be
discussed by the evaluation of aesthetics of the images, whilst ignoring the
content of the image.

In this work, we will use aesthetic features tried on collections of drawn
artwork (illustration, drawing and painting) and on collections of photography,
and apply them for classification of artwork with the meaning of identifying
the author of the artwork.

The classification of images by style is needed for CBIR systems for artwork ,
and a better understanding of the features needed for this classification will
help in the further development of such systems.

Estimates of image complexity based on lossy compression errors, standard
deviation and average over components of HSV representation.  Itten colour
harmony over components of the HSL representation and line estimates drawn from
edges detected in the image.  All these features are added to colour and
texture to produce features for image classification.

The major datasets used are of photography therefore some of the features have
not yet been tried on drawn art.  In this work, we plan to fill the gap by
applying the not yet tried features to datasets of drawn art images.

The NIRP collection contains nearly 8000 pre-1900 European oil paintings from
public collections in the UK.  In the VAM collections we are interested in two
specific subsets: paintings, containing over 2000 European oil paintings; and
drawings, containing over 2000 drawings from Europe and USA.  Unfortunately not
all items in the NIRP and VAM collections have images of good quality and many
items miss some or all metadata information, which is needed to evaluate a
classification task.  Therefore, some of the items from the collections will
need to be removed before using them as datasets for classification.

